---
layout: post
title: Back to the Future: 2012
tags: [baseball]
---
By Eric Cole

[Editor's note: this was written when the Royals were up 2-0 in the series against the Mets.]

I read an article recently, from “way back” in 2012, in which the writer, working hard to find something positive to say about Kansas City and the Royals, as the All-Star game approached, waxed poetic about boulevards, BBQ and fountains.  While this particular writer happens to be one of my favorites, especially when he worked for the hometown newspaper, he didn’t quite capture the flavor of our town and our Royals in his piece.  At least not in my opinion.

It’s been a long haul for a lot of us in the Kansas City community who love the Royals, love Kauffman and enjoy the sport of baseball.  There have been rough years.  MANY rough years of hardship, being laughed at, hoping for a miracle and waiting.  We have endured as a baseball community as we sought consolation in each spring training that “this year will be different.”

We have a choice we all have to make.  We can continue to dwell on the long lost years of baseball … or we can revel in the new age of Kansas City baseball.  Continuing to live in the past, or even comparing the past to the present, is old, tired and worn out (much like the Marlin Man or Joe Buck.)  2012 was the last time we had a losing record.  That’s ages in baseball.  Our winning percentage has improved every year since 2010.  That’s eons in baseball.

This year, 2.7 million fans walked through the gates at Kauffman to experience what today’s Kansas City Royals are all about.  They weren’t there to bask in the former glory of the George Brett era.  They were there to experience the Moose, Hoz, Cain, Esky, Gordo, Salvy, Davis, Ventura era.  (Oh, what the hell, go ahead and throw Zobrist and Chris Young in there too.)   These are the people we speak about now.  These are the ones that we tweet about and talk about each day.  This is our Royal’s family now.  

Only two games in to the 2015 World Series, we have enjoyed moments we will talk about for a long time to come.  

From game one, we watched Escobar zip around the bases in the first inning of Game 1 for the first inside the park homer to lead off a game since 1903 which, quite literally, left both him and us breathless.  Or Moose’s diving stop in the top of the sixth which saved a run and left everyone enamored with his quick reflexes.  Or there was Cain’s stolen base which led to the tying run scoring when MOOOOOOOSSSSE singled to right center field. We all lamented together when Hosmer made a rare error only to have Gordon homer in the 9th to tie the game back up.  And Chris Young’s masterful performance as the innings dragged on in to the next day made us believe in the spirit of determination.  And, finally in the bottom of the 14th, when Hosmer comes to bat with the bases loaded … the story of redemption for an earlier error comes true as he hits a sacrifice fly to right field … and Escobar comes in to score as Hosmer conducts one of the most elegant bat flips I have seen this year.  

Game two produced equally memorable moments from Cueto’s incredible pitching performance to the Royal’s fifth inning in which the team “kept the line moving” as we scored four runs.  Just seeing Cueto skip back out on to the field for the ninth after the Royals scored 3 more in the 8th is probably one of the favorite moments of game two.  (Only slightly ahead of my 2nd favorite moment which was watching Salvy bear hug Cueto and lift him in the air after completing a masterful pitching performance by going all 9 innings in a World Series contest against a formidable team.)

Being a fan of the Royals isn’t hard these days.  We have a team that is imbued with energy, spirit, excitement, determination, passion, a touch of luck and a lot of fight.  Ask people who their favorite player is and you see a look of confusion … how does one just pick only one favorite?  This team has too many personalities that shine in their own way to just choose one.  And that’s what makes the Royals, THE ROYALS.  If you had told me just three months ago than Ben Zobrist would be one of my favorite Royals players, I would have laughed in your face.  But, today, he is and regardless of where he plays next year, he will probably always be one of my favorites.  

Writing about the Royals in today’s world is easy.  There’s probably too many people writing too many articles these days.  Searching for something new to say that someone else hasn’t already said has led to only slightly intriguing articles about such things as a newborn named after the Royals (Royal Titus Overmyer, if you are interested) to Clint Boyer sharing a NASCAR bond with Ned Yost.  (You know you wondered about that at some point, didn’t you?)   So, most likely, the last thing you need is to read another article waxing poetic about BBQ (Brubeck’s is best), fountains (there’s lots and they all appear to be blue right now), boulevards (although really the only boulevard anyone talks about is Ward Parkway), the Chiefs (oh wait, no one cares about the Chiefs right now … and, by the way, can we stop yelling “home of the CHIEFS” at the end of the National Anthem?  It’s #1, disrespectful and, #2, it’s stupid and #3, it’s irrelevant at a Royals game) or the Plaza lights.

I’m pretty sure we’ve seen our last home game for the Royals here in Kansas City.   They are going to finish this series up in New York in front of the Met’s fans at CitiField … and I’m going to be fine with that because it means a World Series title for our beloved team.  But, I’m also a bit sad because I’ll miss the 2015 Kansas City Royals.  I’ll miss going out to Kauffman Stadium with my friends and family.  I’ll miss the “Let’s Go Royals” chants. I’ll miss it all.  But, as they say:

There’s always next year. 

(If you are interested, <a href='http://joeposnanski.com/kansas-city/'>here is that article from 2012.</a>)

<i>Eric can be reached on Twitter @emlzcole.</i>
